---
title: Microsoft Academic Services
description: Microsoft Academic Services provide Azure based solutions for interacting with the Microsoft Academic Graph, a comprehensive, heterogeneous graph of the worlds scientific publications
---
# Frequently Asked Questions

## About charges

We are currently in free preview period, and hence there will be no data charge. Customers will incur costs on Azure Data Store for 400GB for each data dump. Customers will also be charged on compute time when they run analytic jobs on the data. We have included a few sample scripts of various complexities in analytic tasks. Customers can use these scripts to test the costs as the degree of parallelism (AUs) can lead to significant cost differences in the charge they incur. It’ll be great if you have CSEs to help them estimate the cost based on the jobs they want to run on this data.

We are updating the data and send out a new copy every 2 weeks. However, the customer can decide to delete the old copies once they receive the new one.

## Academic data analytics and visualization github repository

I also wanted to provide a link to our brand-new Academic data analytics and visualization github repository:
https://github.com/Azure-Samples/academic-knowledge-analytics-visualization

It has a lot of examples of using USQL to query, join and transform our graph data and might prove invaluable to you and your team in the research you’re conducting.

## Field Of Study Hierarchy

The topical hierarchy is generated by applying a NLP technique called hierarchical topic modeling, namely, we have asked our machine to infer based on all the documents it has read and understood. We recompute this on every graph updates and publish to the hierarchical browser at https://academic.microsoft.com/#/topics/0/. The technical details are published in the ACL paper: https://academic.microsoft.com/#/detail/2803115315. We didn’t follow any standards because it appears human annotations behind those standards do not agree with one another.  

## Paper Abstract info

The abstracts are available in the stream called PaperAbstractInvertedIndex in the MAG ADLS distribution. As the name implied, we made the full abstract available in the format of inverted index as advised by our copyright lawyers. 

Due to legal reasons we are unable to publish abstracts. However you could find Inverted index for abstract in PaperAbstractsInvertedIndex.txt. Inverted index is a table that tells you how many words are there and in what positions in the text does each word occur. It’s a commonly used data structure for natural language processing, but can be converted back into human readable format. Check out a recent community blog post for an example of how to do so. 

## Author supplied keywords

We don’t publish the raw author supplied keywords, however we do publish the PaperFieldsOfStudy relationship which leverages author supplied keywords (along with other information) to associate fields of study with papers.

## Rank

"Rank" values in the entity files are the log probability of an entity being important multiplied by a constant(-1000).
Rank = -1000 * Ln( probability of an entity being important ).
The probability of an entity being important are calculated using multiple types of entities in MAG and their relationships.
