academic-services/graph/get-started-setup-azure-hdinsight.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft Academic Graph on HDInsight
description: Step-by-step instructions for setting up Microsoft Academic Graph to be used with Azure HDInsight
ms.topic: get-started-article
ms.date: 11/08/2018
---
# Get started using Microsoft Academic Graph on Azure HDInsight

Details step-by-step instructions for setting up Microsoft Academic Graph to be used with Azure HDInsight.

## Create Azure HDInsight account

1. Home > Create a resource > Analytics > HDInsight

    ![Create new Azure HDInsight account](media/create-hdinsight-select.png "Create new Azure HDInsight account")

1. Create new HDInsight and Azure storage accounts, following the flow indicated in figure below:

    ![Enter details for new Azure HDInsight account](media/create-hdinsight-account-details.png "Enter details for new Azure HDInsight account")

    ![Enter details for new storage for new Azure HDInsight account](media/create-hdinsight-storage-account-details.png "Enter details for new storage for new Azure HDInsight account")

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > Both accounts require a globally unique name

## Configure Azure HDInsight to use Microsoft Academic Graph

There are two options to use Microsoft Academic Graph in Azure HDInsight.

1. Attach the Azure storage storing Microsoft Academic Graph to Azure HDInsight (see Step 2 above) and load the graph data with load path (e.g. `/mag/Affiliations.txt`).

1. Without attaching the Azure storage storing Microsoft Academic Graph to Azure HDInsight, using the network file path to the Azure storage and pattern is `wasbs://<container-name>@<storage-name>.blob.core.windows.net/<path/to/file>` (e.g. `wasbs://mag-2018-11-09@microsoftacademicgraph.blob.core.windows.net/mag/Affiliations.txt`).

Commit message:

Cyhuang01 spark1 (#12)
* Update get-started-setup-azure-hdinsight.md

* Update get-started-setup-azure-hdinsight.md

* Update get-started-setup-azure-hdinsight.md

* Add files via upload

* Update get-started-setup-azure-hdinsight.md

* Add files via upload

* Update get-started-setup-azure-hdinsight.md

* Update get-started-setup-azure-hdinsight.md

* Update index.yml

* Update TOC.yml

* Update TOC.yml

* Update TOC.yml

* Update get-started-setup-provisioning.md

* Update samples-azure-data-lake-analytics.md

* Update samples-azure-data-lake-analytics.md

* Update get-started-setup-azure-data-lake-analytics.md

* Update get-started-setup-azure-hdinsight.md

* Update index.yml

* Update get-started-setup-azure-hdinsight.md

* Update samples-azure-data-lake-analytics.md

* Update samples-azure-hdinsight.md

* Update get-started-setup-azure-hdinsight.md

* Update samples-azure-hdinsight.md

* Update samples-azure-hdinsight.md

* Update reference-data-schema.md

academic-services/graph/get-started-setup-azure-hdinsight.md, after:

---
title: Microsoft Academic Graph using PySpark
description: Step-by-step instructions to process Microsoft Academic Graph using PySpark
ms.topic: get-started-article
ms.date: 11/08/2018
---
# Using Microsoft Academic Graph with PySpark on Azure HDInsight/Spark cluster

You could use PySpark to process Microsoft Academic Graph stored in Azure Storage. Here are the step-by-step instructions.

1. Create Azure HDInsight/Spark cluster.
1. Referencing MAG files in PySpark scripts.

## Create Azure HDInsight/Spark cluster

1. Create an Azure HDInsight cluster. From Azure portal Home > Create a resource > Analytics > HDInsight

    ![Create new Azure HDInsight resource](media/create-hdinsight-select.png "Create new Azure HDInsight resource")

1. Configure HDInsight/Spark cluster. Choose "Spark" as the cluster type.

    ![Configure HDInsight/Spark cluster](media/create-spark-cluster-1.png "Configure HDInsight/Spark cluster")

1. Configure primary storage. Create an Azure Storage account and choose a default container as the primary storage.

    ![Configure primary storage](media/create-spark-cluster-2.png "Configure primary storage")

1. Configure additional storage. Add Azure Storage account containing MAG as an additional storage account if it is not the same storage account in the previous step.

    ![Configure additional storage](media/create-spark-cluster-3.png "Configure additional storage")

1. Create HDInsight/Spark cluster. Optionally change cluster size before clicking the "Create" buttom.

    ![Create cluster](media/create-spark-cluster-4.png "Create cluster")

## Referencing Microsoft Academic Graph files in PySpark scripts

The uri pattern for referencing Microsoft Academic Graph files is `wasbs://<container-name>@<storage-name>.blob.core.windows.net/<file-path>`. (e.g. `wasbs://mag-2018-11-09@mymagstorage.blob.core.windows.net/mag/Affiliations.txt`).
