---
title: FAQ about Microsoft Academic Graph
description: Answers some of the most frequently asked questions about the Microsoft Academic Graph
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 3/10/2019
---
# Frequently Asked Questions about Microsoft Academic Graph

Answers some of the most frequently asked questions about the Microsoft Academic Graph

## License

Microsoft Academic Graph is licensed under [ODC-BY](https://opendatacommons.org/licenses/by/1.0/)

When using Microsoft Academic data (MAG, MAKES, etc.) in a product or service, or including data in a redistribution, please acknowledge Microsoft Academic using the URI https://aka.ms/msracad. For publications and reports, please cite the following article:

> [!NOTE]
> Arnab Sinha, Zhihong Shen, Yang Song, Hao Ma, Darrin Eide, Bo-June (Paul) Hsu, and Kuansan Wang. 2015. An Overview of Microsoft Academic Service (MA) and Applications. In Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on World Wide Web (WWW '15 Companion). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 243-246. DOI=http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2740908.2742839 

## How much does Microsoft Academic Graph cost

Microsoft Academic Graph is currently in free preview. Consumers incur costs only on their own Azure resource usage associated with graph (i.e. storing, downloading, processing, analytics, etc.). See the [pricing](resources-pricing.md) page for Azure cost estimator links that pre-populate storage costs associated with storing the approximate size of the graph.

It's important to note that old versions of MAG are not removed or modified in any way by the provisioning process, so if you have signed up for automatic provisioning you are responsible for removing older releases.

We are updating the data and send out a new copy every 2 weeks. However, the customer can decide to delete the old copies once they receive the new one.

## How frequently is Microsoft Academic Graph updated

New Microsoft Academic Graph releases occur approximately every 1-2 weeks.

## How is the field of study hierarchy generated

The topical hierarchy is generated by applying a NLP technique called hierarchical topic modeling, namely, we have asked our machine to infer based on all the documents it has read and understood. This is regenerated  with every new graph release and published to the [hierarchical browser on Microsoft Academic](https://academic.microsoft.com/#/topics/0/). Technical details of the computation method have been published in the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), please see [A web-scale system for scientific knowledge exploration](https://academic.microsoft.com/#/detail/2803115315).

## What format are paper abstracts published in

Due to legal constraints, paper abstracts in Microsoft Academic Graph cannot be published as plaintext. They are instead available as an [inverted index](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inverted_index) in the PaperAbstractInvertedIndex stream. Inverted indexes store information about each word in a body of text, including the number of occurrences and the position of each occurrence.

## How does Microsoft Academic Graph leverage author supplied keywords for papers

Microsoft Academic Graph doesn't publish the raw author supplied keywords that are often published on academic publications. Instead, we leverage author supplied keywords along with other information to associate fields of study with papers. This information is available in the PaperFieldsOfStudy stream.

## What is the Rank value on entities

"Rank" values are a static rank associated with each entity in the Microsoft Academic Graph. The static rank  roughly reflects the log probability of an entity being "important" represented as an integer by multiplying it by -1000, i.e.:

> [!NOTE]
> Rank = -1000 * Ln( probability of an entity being important )

An entities "importance" is calculated using its relationships with other entities in the graph, e.g. a paper entity recently published in Nature receiving a high number of citations is likely to have high importance, whereas a pre-print paper entity not associated with a conference/journal is likely to have a low importance.

## What is the cost to compute authors citation counts and h-index

It is relatively easy and inexpensive to compute citation counts and h-index using [U-SQL](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/data-lake-analytics/u-sql/u-sql-language-reference) with [Azure Data Lake Analytic](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/data-lake-analytics/) for all authors in MAG, currently 250 million in total. The cost range from $1 (USD) with 1 AU running for 40 minutes to $2 with 16AU running for 5 minutes.
