academic-services/graph/samples-usql-network-similarity.md, before:

---
title: Network Similarity Sample (U-SQL)
description: Network Similarity Sample (U-SQL)
services: microsoft-academic-services
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.service: microsoft-academic-services
ms.date: 10/20/2020
---
# Network Similarity Sample (U-SQL)

In this sample, you will compute the network similarity score and top related affiliations in Microsoft Academic Graph (MAG) using Azure Data Analytics (U-SQL).

## Prerequisites

Complete these tasks before beginning this tutorial:

* [Set up provisioning of Microsoft Academic Graph to an Azure blob storage account](get-started-setup-provisioning.md)
* [Set up an Azure Data Lake Analytics for Microsoft Academic Graph](get-started-setup-azure-data-lake-analytics.md)

## Gather the information that you need

   Before you begin, you should have these items of information:

   :heavy_check_mark:  The name of your Azure Storage (AS) account containing MAG dataset from [Get Microsoft Academic Graph on Azure storage](get-started-setup-provisioning.md#note-azure-storage-account-name-and-primary-key).

   :heavy_check_mark:  The name of your Azure Data Lake Analytics (ADLA) service from [Set up Azure Data Lake Analytics](get-started-setup-azure-data-lake-analytics.md#create-azure-data-lake-analytics-account).

   :heavy_check_mark:  The name of your Azure Data Lake Storage (ADLS) from [Set up Azure Data Lake Analytics](get-started-setup-azure-data-lake-analytics.md#create-azure-data-lake-analytics-account).

   :heavy_check_mark:  The name of the container in your Azure Storage (AS) account containing MAG dataset.

## Define functions to extract MAG data

In prerequisite [Set up an Azure Data Lake Analytics](get-started-setup-azure-data-lake-analytics.md), you added the Azure Storage (AS) created for MAG provision as a data source for the Azure Data Lake Analytics service (ADLA). In this section, you submit an ADLA job to create functions extracting MAG data from Azure Storage (AS).

Follow instructions in [Define MAG functions](define-mag-function.md).

## Define network similarity functions

In this section, you submit an ADLA job to define network similarity functions.

1. Download `ns/usql/NetworkSimilarityFunction.usql` to your local drive.<br>From [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), go to the Azure Storage account > **Containers > [mag-yyyy-mm-dd] > ns > usql > NetworkSimilarityFunction.usql > Download**.

1. Go to the Azure Data Lake Analytics (ADLA) service that you created, and select **Overview > New job > Open file**. Select `NetworkSimilarityFunction.usql` in your local drive.

1. Select **Submit**.

1. The job should finish successfully.

## Run Sample script

1. Download `ns/usql/NetworkSimilaritySample.usql` to your local drive.<br>From [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), go to the Azure Storage account > **Containers > [mag-yyyy-mm-dd] > ns > usql > NetworkSimilaritySample.usql > Download**.

1. Go to the Azure Data Lake Analytics (ADLA) service that you created, and select **Overview > New job > Open file**. Select `NetworkSimilaritySample.usql` in your local drive.

1. Replace `<AzureStorageAccount>`, and `<MagContainer>` placeholder values with the values that you collected while completing the prerequisites of this sample.

   |Value  |Description  |
   |---------|---------|
   |**`<AzureStorageAccount>`** | The name of your Azure Storage (AS) account containing MAG dataset. |
   |**`<MagContainer>`** | The container name in Azure Storage (AS) account containing MAG dataset, usually in the form of **mag-yyyy-mm-dd**. |

1. Select **Submit**.

1. The job should finish successfully.

## Script description

### Getting similarity score between two entities

- Following script calls GetSimilarity method to get similarity score between two entities

   ```U-SQL
   @score = AcademicGraph.NetworkSimilarity.GetSimilarity(@uriPrefix, @entityType, @sense, @entityId1, @entityId2);
   ```

- You will see output in `/Output/NetworkSimilarity/GetSimilarity.tsv` as follows

   ```
   EntityId   | SimilarEntityId | SimilarEntityType | Score
   -----------+-----------------+-------------------+------------
   1290206253 | 201448701       | af                | 0.766698062
   ```


### Getting top related entities

- Following script calls getTopEntities method to get top related entities

   ```U-SQL
   @topEntities = AcademicGraph.NetworkSimilarity.GetTopEntities(@uriPrefix, @entityType, @sense, @entityId1, 10, (float)0);
   ```

- You will see output in `/Output/NetworkSimilarity/GetTopEntities.tsv` as follows

    ![GetTopEntities output](media/network-similarity/usql-get-top-entities.png "GetTopEntities output")

### Getting entity details

- Following script joins top entities with affiliation table to get entity details

   ```U-SQL
   @affiliations = Affiliations(@uriPrefix);

   @topEntityDetails =
       SELECT
           @topEntities.SimilarEntityId,
           @affiliations.DisplayName,
           @topEntities.Score
       FROM @topEntities
       INNER JOIN @affiliations
       ON @topEntities.SimilarEntityId == @affiliations.AffiliationId;
   ```

- You will see output in `/Output/NetworkSimilarity/TopEntityDetails.tsv` as follows

    ![Top entities detail](media/network-similarity/usql-top-entities-detail.png "Top entities detail")

## Resources

* [Get started with Azure Data Lake Analytics using Azure portal](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-lake-analytics/data-lake-analytics-get-started-portal)
* [Data Lake Analytics](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/data-lake-analytics/)
* [U-SQL Language Reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/u-sql/)

Commit message:

MAG data share changes (#207)
* Update TOC.yml

* V2

* v3

* V4

* V5

* V6

* V7

* V8

* V7

* V10

* V11

* V12

academic-services/graph/samples-usql-network-similarity.md, after:

---
title: Network Similarity Sample (U-SQL)
description: Network Similarity Sample (U-SQL)
services: microsoft-academic-services
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.service: microsoft-academic-services
ms.date: 3/23/2021
---
# Network Similarity Sample (U-SQL)

In this sample, you will compute the network similarity score and top related affiliations in Microsoft Academic Graph (MAG) using Azure Data Analytics (U-SQL).

## Prerequisites

Complete these tasks before beginning this tutorial:

* [Set up provisioning of Microsoft Academic Graph to an Azure blob storage account](get-started-setup-provisioning.md)
* [Set up an Azure Data Lake Analytics for Microsoft Academic Graph](get-started-setup-azure-data-lake-analytics.md)

## Gather the information that you need

   Before you begin, you should have these items of information:

   :heavy_check_mark:  The name of your Azure Storage (AS) account containing MAG dataset from [Get Microsoft Academic Graph on Azure storage](get-started-setup-provisioning.md#note-azure-storage-account-name).

   :heavy_check_mark:  The name of your Azure Data Lake Analytics (ADLA) service from [Set up Azure Data Lake Analytics](get-started-setup-azure-data-lake-analytics.md#create-azure-data-lake-analytics-account).

   :heavy_check_mark:  The name of your Azure Data Lake Storage (ADLS) from [Set up Azure Data Lake Analytics](get-started-setup-azure-data-lake-analytics.md#create-azure-data-lake-analytics-account).

   :heavy_check_mark:  The name of the container in your Azure Storage (AS) account containing MAG dataset.

## Define functions to extract MAG data

In prerequisite [Set up an Azure Data Lake Analytics](get-started-setup-azure-data-lake-analytics.md), you added the Azure Storage (AS) created for MAG provision as a data source for the Azure Data Lake Analytics service (ADLA). In this section, you submit an ADLA job to create functions extracting MAG data from Azure Storage (AS).

Follow instructions in [Define MAG functions](define-mag-function.md).

## Define network similarity functions

In this section, you submit an ADLA job to define network similarity functions.

1. Download `ns/usql/NetworkSimilarityFunction.usql` to your local drive.<br>From [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), go to the Azure Storage account > **Containers > [mag-yyyy-mm-dd] > ns > usql > NetworkSimilarityFunction.usql > Download**.

1. Go to the Azure Data Lake Analytics (ADLA) service that you created, and select **Overview > New job > Open file**. Select `NetworkSimilarityFunction.usql` in your local drive.

1. Select **Submit**.

1. The job should finish successfully.

## Run Sample script

1. Download `ns/usql/NetworkSimilaritySample.usql` to your local drive.<br>From [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), go to the Azure Storage account > **Containers > [mag-yyyy-mm-dd] > ns > usql > NetworkSimilaritySample.usql > Download**.

1. Go to the Azure Data Lake Analytics (ADLA) service that you created, and select **Overview > New job > Open file**. Select `NetworkSimilaritySample.usql` in your local drive.

1. Replace `<AzureStorageAccount>`, and `<MagContainer>` placeholder values with the values that you collected while completing the prerequisites of this sample.

   | Value | Description |
   |-|-|
   | **`<AzureStorageAccount>`** | The name of your Azure Storage (AS) account containing MAG dataset. |
   | **`<MagContainer>`** | This is the container name in Azure Storage account containing MAG dataset. See below. |
   | **`<MagVersion>`** | This is the path to a MAG dataset in MagContainer.  See below. |

   <br>

   * If the MAG dataset is from Azure Data Share, set **MagContainer** to the container mapped when accepting Data Share invitation, and **MagVersion** to `'mag/yyyy-mm-dd'`.
   * Otherwise, set **MagContainer** to `'mag-yyyy-mm-dd'`, and **MagVersion** to `''`.

1. Select **Submit**.

1. The job should finish successfully.

## Script description

### Getting similarity score between two entities

- Following script calls GetSimilarity method to get similarity score between two entities

   ```U-SQL
   @score = AcademicGraph.NetworkSimilarity.GetSimilarity(@uriPrefix, @entityType, @sense, @entityId1, @entityId2);
   ```

- You will see output in `/Output/NetworkSimilarity/GetSimilarity.tsv` as follows

   ```
   EntityId   | SimilarEntityId | SimilarEntityType | Score
   -----------+-----------------+-------------------+------------
   1290206253 | 201448701       | af                | 0.766698062
   ```


### Getting top related entities

- Following script calls getTopEntities method to get top related entities

   ```U-SQL
   @topEntities = AcademicGraph.NetworkSimilarity.GetTopEntities(@uriPrefix, @entityType, @sense, @entityId1, 10, (float)0);
   ```

- You will see output in `/Output/NetworkSimilarity/GetTopEntities.tsv` as follows

    ![GetTopEntities output](media/network-similarity/usql-get-top-entities.png "GetTopEntities output")

### Getting entity details

- Following script joins top entities with affiliation table to get entity details

   ```U-SQL
   @affiliations = Affiliations(@uriPrefix);

   @topEntityDetails =
       SELECT
           @topEntities.SimilarEntityId,
           @affiliations.DisplayName,
           @topEntities.Score
       FROM @topEntities
       INNER JOIN @affiliations
       ON @topEntities.SimilarEntityId == @affiliations.AffiliationId;
   ```

- You will see output in `/Output/NetworkSimilarity/TopEntityDetails.tsv` as follows

    ![Top entities detail](media/network-similarity/usql-top-entities-detail.png "Top entities detail")

## Resources

* [Get started with Azure Data Lake Analytics using Azure portal](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-lake-analytics/data-lake-analytics-get-started-portal)
* [Data Lake Analytics](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/data-lake-analytics/)
* [U-SQL Language Reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/u-sql/)
