academic-services/knowledge-exploration-service/resources-pricing.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft Academic Knowledge Exploration Service pricing
description: Provides Azure cost estimator links to model the cost of using Microsoft Academic Knowledge Exploration Service
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 03/18/2018
---
# Microsoft Academic Knowledge Exploration Service pricing

Provides Azure cost estimator links to model the cost of using Microsoft Academic Knowledge Exploration Service

API | Storage* | Cloud service instance* | Cost estimate
--- | --- | --- | ---
Entity | 150gb | D3 v2 | [Pricing calculator](https://azure.com/e/28e8cebb3121478fb9da64dd713c1780)
Entity | 150gb | E32 v3 | [Pricing calculator](https://azure.com/e/36cd753d9d00476582b3375ebd4358e2)
Semanitc Interpretation | 200gb | D4 v2 | [Pricing calculator](https://azure.com/e/97071caa706645278c1fdecc25a495ab)
Semantic Interpretation | 200gb | E32 v3 | [Pricing calculator](https://azure.com/e/bac1c6c5339f43a7baeb3628079773b0)
Both | 350gb | D3 v2, D4 v2 | [Pricing calculator](https://azure.com/e/9791e10a26114a90b2be2d7a96aa048d)
Both | 350gb | 2 x E32 v3 | [Pricing calculator](https://azure.com/e/d7c28fa94a9e4472819df82a39ed0c68)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> \* Price estimates are based on cloud services instances being online at all times (1 month) and only the most recent version of the API being retained in storage. Use the Azure estimator links above to model different use scenarios, e.g. use hour pricing to simulate only keeping instances online when needed.

Commit message:

Updating each page to show message about next version of MAKES and fixed some links with language references

academic-services/knowledge-exploration-service/resources-pricing.md, after:

---
title: Microsoft Academic Knowledge Exploration Service pricing
description: Provides Azure cost estimator links to model the cost of using Microsoft Academic Knowledge Exploration Service
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 03/18/2018
---
# Microsoft Academic Knowledge Exploration Service pricing

> [!IMPORTANT]
> We will be publishing a new version of MAKES in early 2020.  This version will be a turn-key solution to host MAKES in your Azure subscription.  For users of Project Academic Knowledge, this MAKES version will mirror the schema and API methods supported by Project Academic Knowledge, enabling users to host their own un-throttled version of the API.

Provides Azure cost estimator links to model the cost of using Microsoft Academic Knowledge Exploration Service

API | Storage* | Cloud service instance* | Cost estimate
--- | --- | --- | ---
Entity | 150gb | D3 v2 | [Pricing calculator](https://azure.com/e/28e8cebb3121478fb9da64dd713c1780)
Entity | 150gb | E32 v3 | [Pricing calculator](https://azure.com/e/36cd753d9d00476582b3375ebd4358e2)
Semanitc Interpretation | 200gb | D4 v2 | [Pricing calculator](https://azure.com/e/97071caa706645278c1fdecc25a495ab)
Semantic Interpretation | 200gb | E32 v3 | [Pricing calculator](https://azure.com/e/bac1c6c5339f43a7baeb3628079773b0)
Both | 350gb | D3 v2, D4 v2 | [Pricing calculator](https://azure.com/e/9791e10a26114a90b2be2d7a96aa048d)
Both | 350gb | 2 x E32 v3 | [Pricing calculator](https://azure.com/e/d7c28fa94a9e4472819df82a39ed0c68)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> \* Price estimates are based on cloud services instances being online at all times (1 month) and only the most recent version of the API being retained in storage. Use the Azure estimator links above to model different use scenarios, e.g. use hour pricing to simulate only keeping instances online when needed.
