---
title: 
description: 
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 
---

# Evaluate REST API

The **Evaluate** API returns entities that match constraints specified in a [structured query expression](concepts-query-expressions.md).

Query expressions can either be manually generated using the [structured query expression](concepts-query-expressions.md) syntax and [entity schema](reference-entity-schema.md), or automatically generated by interpreting a natural language query using the [Interpret method](reference-get-interpret.md).

``` HTTP
GET http://{serviceName}.{serviceRegion}.cloudapp.azure.com/evaluate?expression={expression}
```  

With optional parameters:

``` HTTP
GET http://{serviceName}.{serviceRegion}.cloudapp.azure.com/evaluate?expression={expression}&select={select}&skip={skip}&top={top}&orderBy={orderBy}&totalCount={totalCount}
```  

## URI Parameters

Name | In | Required | Type | Description
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
`expression` | query | Required | string | Structured query expression to evaluate. See [structured query expressions](concepts-query-expressions.md) for documentation.
`orderBy` | query | Optional | string | The attribute to use for sorting the result set, followed by an optional sort order indicator in the format "asc" for ascending and "desc" for descending. E.g. Year:desc would return entities ordered newest first. <br/><br/>Note that changing the default order of large result sets can take a very long time, so changing sort order should be used cautiously. <br/><br/>The default value is entity log probability score in descending order.
`select` | query | Optional | string | A list of comma-separated attributes to include for each entity in the result set. See the [entity schema](reference-entity-schema.md) for the attributes that can be requested. Returned entities aren't required to have the attributes, which means the list can include attributes from different entity types. This is useful when the query expression potentially matches multiple types of entities. <br/><br/>If no attributes are specified then the each entity will only contain its corresponding score. <br/><br/>If an asterisk (*) is specified, all available attributes will be returned. <br/><br/>Defaults to an empty string.
`skip` | query | Optional | integer | The number of matching entities to skip in the result set. <br/><br/>Defaults to 0.
`top` | query | Optional | integer | The number of matching entities to retrieve in the result set. The the maximum page size is 1000. <br/><br/>Defaults to 10.
`totalCount` | query | Optional | boolean | Specifies whether to return the total count of entities available in the result set. <br/><br/>Note that for very large result sets, including the total count can be a costly operation and may cause the evaluate to take longer than expected. <br/><br/>Defaults to false.

## Responses

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
200 OK | [EvaluateResponse](#evaluateresponse) | Evaluate response successfully generated and returned.

## Examples

### Example name

Example description

#### Sample Request

``` HTTP
GET|POST http://example.com
```

Request Body

``` JSON
{
    "Sample": "Request"
}
```

#### Sample Response

Status code: XXX

``` JSON
{
    "Sample": "Response"
}
```

## Definitions

| | |
| --- | --- |
[EvaluateResponse](#evaluateresponse) | Evaluate response information.

### EvaluateResponse

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
expressionEvaluate | string | The query expression evaluated to generate matching entities.
matchingEntities | json[] | Array of JSON objects representing the entities matching the structured query expression that was evaluated. Each object will contain the attributes requested in `select` if available.

## See also
